Adding Serverless architecture section (#23920)
openshift/openshift-docs: serverless/architecture/serverless-serving-architecture.adoc

include::modules/serverless-document-attributes.adoc[]
[id="serverless-serving-architecture"]
= Knative Serving architecture
:context: serverless-serving-architecture
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]

toc::[]

Knative Serving supports deploying and managing serverless applications, by providing a set of objects as Kubernetes custom resources (CRs) that define and control the behavior of serverless workloads on an {product-title} cluster.

These CRs are building blocks to address complex use cases, for example:

* Rapidly deploying serverless containers.
* Automatically scaling pods.
// TODO: Add other use cases, more advanced tutorials?

> == Knative Serving custom resources

Reviewer: This will need an ID, but you can skip `context` because this is an assembly file.

> == Knative Serving resources

Author: they're CRs I think, I've made changes to this section so it should be clearer now.

> == Knative Serving resources

Reviewer: @abrennan89, oops, GH hides replies. Saw this in the email.

// TODO: Request a good Serving arch diagram

> Configuration:: The `configuration.serving.knative.dev` resource, or Configuration, maintains the desired state for your deployment. It provides a clean separation between code and configuration. Modifying a configuration creates a new Revision.

Reviewer: s/desired/expected or intended/

> Revision:: The `revision.serving.knative.dev` resource, or Revision,  is a point-in-time snapshot of the code and configuration for each modification made to the workload. Revisions are immutable objects and can be retained for as long as necessary.

Reviewer: ",  is" extra space.

> Service:: The `service.serving.knative.dev` resource, or Service, automatically manages the life cycle of your workload. It controls the creation of other objects to ensure that your application has a Route, a Configuration, and a new Revision for each change to the Service. Services enable traffic routing to your chosen Revision.

Reviewer: Does repeating _Service_ in the text have some significance? It's also the definition name for this text.

Author: Good point.

include::modules/serverless-document-attributes.adoc[]
[id="serverless-serving-architecture"]
= Knative Serving architecture
:context: serverless-serving-architecture
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]

toc::[]

> Knative Serving supports deploying and managing serverless applications, by providing a set of objects as Kubernetes CustomResourceDefinitions (CRDs) that define and control the behavior of serverless workloads on an {product-title} cluster.

Author: This is specific to "Serverless" as a whole though, whereas this section is specifically just talking about Knative Serving. We explain Serverless on the main getting started page also. Gonna leave this as is for now.

> Knative Serving supports deploying and managing serverless applications, by providing a set of objects as Kubernetes CustomResourceDefinitions (CRDs) that define and control the behavior of serverless workloads on an {product-title} cluster.

Reviewer 2: The main getting started page is below the Architecture. Also, the getting started doesn't say what is Serverless and it's main component - serving. There are no links to Red Hat topics on Cloud-Native apps and Serverless architecture.

That should be somewhere. This section is about architecture. That's an engineering detail, that should be on _"page 2"_. In my opinion it would be good to structure the docs in this way:

- "page 1" - about serverless project - content designed for everyone (decision makers, marketing & PR, architects, devs, ops)
- "page 2" - serverless architecture - content designed for technical conceptual personnel (architects, devs, ops)
- "page 3-n" - serverless implementation in detail - content designed for technical workers (devs, ops)

> Knative Serving supports deploying and managing serverless applications, by providing a set of objects as Kubernetes CustomResourceDefinitions (CRDs) that define and control the behavior of serverless workloads on an {product-title} cluster.

Reviewer 2: The main getting started page is below the Architecture. Also, the getting started doesn't say what is Serverless and it's main component - serving. There are no links to Red Hat topics on Cloud-Native apps and Serverless architecture.

That should be somewhere. This section is about architecture. That's an engineering detail, that should be on _"page 2"_. In my opinion it would be good to structure the docs in this way:

- "page 1" - about serverless project - content designed for everyone (decision makers, marketing & PR, architects, devs, ops)
- "page 2" - serverless architecture - content designed for technical conceptual personnel (architects, devs, ops)
- "page 3-n" - serverless implementation in detail - content designed for technical workers (devs, ops)

> Knative Serving supports deploying and managing serverless applications, by providing a set of objects as Kubernetes CustomResourceDefinitions (CRDs) that define and control the behavior of serverless workloads on an {product-title} cluster.

Author: This PR is blocking me from rebasing another whole PR on top of it relating to updates for the getting started section #24027 just FYI.

Please keep QE reviews to the scope of the content going forward rather than comments about structure etc. A PR is not the place to raise this - if there are changes to structure etc for docs you'd like to see let's discuss it in some other forum.

> Knative Serving supports deploying and managing serverless applications, by providing a set of objects as Kubernetes CustomResourceDefinitions (CRDs) that define and control the behavior of serverless workloads on an {product-title} cluster.

Reviewer 2: Sure, but I'm opting here to include the following, which isn't present anywhere. 

> Knative Serving on {product-title} enables developers to write a link:https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/cloud-native-apps[cloud-native applications] using a link:https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/cloud-native-apps/what-is-serverless[serverless architecture].
> Serverless refers to a cloud computing model whereby application developers don't have to provision servers or manage scaling for their app. Instead, those routine tasks are abstracted away by the platform, allowing developers to push code to production much faster than in traditional models.

The Serving architecture section is lacking this overall view (what? why? questions), but it starts with saying how knative delivers serverless (the implementation).

Getting started doesn't contain that architectural view either. Also, I wouldn't look at getting started for architectural overview, but here: Architecture > Serving.

> Knative Serving supports deploying and managing serverless applications, by providing a set of objects as Kubernetes CustomResourceDefinitions (CRDs) that define and control the behavior of serverless workloads on an {product-title} cluster.

Author: OK this I do really like, thank you :slightly_smiling_face: added.

Developers use these CRDs to create custom resource instances that can be used as building blocks to address complex use cases. For example:

* Rapidly deploying serverless containers.
* Automatically scaling pods.

> // TODO: Add other use cases, more advanced tutorials?

Author: I don't want to add these to the list until we have some docs that back it up in our OpenShift docs, just wanted to remind myself to do it gradually later :slightly_smiling_face:

> // TODO: Add other use cases, more advanced tutorials?

Reviewer 2: Cool. There's a new tutorial on Blue-Green-Canary deployments by @kameshsampath https://medium.com/@kamesh_sampath/serverless-blue-green-and-canary-with-knative-kn-ad49e8b6aa54 that can be based as a tutorial for that. That's why I've added that as a proposition.

It would be good to describe as many awesome and complicated use case to drive adoption, even without having docs that covers everything.

> // TODO: Add other use cases, more advanced tutorials?

Reviewer 2: Cool. There's a new tutorial on Blue-Green-Canary deployments by @kameshsampath https://medium.com/@kamesh_sampath/serverless-blue-green-and-canary-with-knative-kn-ad49e8b6aa54 that can be based as a tutorial for that. That's why I've added that as a proposition.

It would be good to describe as many awesome and complicated use case to drive adoption, even without having docs that covers everything.

> // TODO: Add other use cases, more advanced tutorials?

Author: Can you please open a Jira docs issue to document blue green deployments properly so we can scope it in a sprint, and include that link in the description?
I don't think there's a lack of information out there about this to write it up, but it's not part of the scope of this PR, and I'd rather document tutorials etc properly in our docs than point to a 3rd party link that could go out of date, be removed, etc.

[id="serverless-serving-architecture-custom-resources"]
== Knative Serving CustomResourceDefinitions
// TODO: Request a good Serving arch diagram

> Service:: The `service.serving.knative.dev` resource automatically manages the life cycle of your workload. It creates a Route, a Configuration, and a new Revision for each change to a Service, to ensure that the application is deployed and reachable through the network. Most developer interactions with custom resources in Knative are carried out by modifying Services.

Author: Made some changes, not identical to this but I think a compromise :slightly_smiling_face: lmk what you think.

Revision:: The `revision.serving.knative.dev` resource is a point-in-time snapshot of the code and configuration for each modification made to the workload. Revisions are immutable objects and can be retained for as long as necessary.

> Service:: The `service.serving.knative.dev` resource automatically manages the life cycle of your workload. It controls the creation of other objects to ensure that your application has a Route, a Configuration, and a new Revision for each change to the Service. Services enable traffic routing to your chosen Revision.

Reviewer 3: In case you move this to the top:

```suggestion
Service:: The `service.serving.knative.dev` resource automatically manages the life cycle of your workload. It creates a Configuration and a Route as explained below to make sure the application is deployed and reachable via the network. Most interactions should be done through Services.
```

> Route:: The `route.serving.knative.dev` resource maps a network endpoint to one or more Revisions. You can manage the traffic in several ways, including fractional traffic and named routes.

Reviewer 3: I'd reorder these a bit: Service usually comes first and is the most commonly used CRD of them all.

Author: So, they're definitively CRDs, not CRs? @markusthoemmes 
https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/23920#issuecomment-663693957

Reviewer 3: Yes they are CRDs. The objects you create are CRs. It's a bit of a philosophical question as to how we refer to them here. CRD is the thing that enables the API, CR is the concrete thing the users create.

Reviewer 3: In theory, a Serving **CR** will be responsible for creating the child resources of course.

Author: @jboxman confirmed this with Markus in Slack today, so I will change it back to CRDs.

Author: @markusthoemmes I think some follow up work to make this clearer in our docs is probably a good idea, also maybe for upstream if its not explained well there because it's a bit confusing in relation to Knative. I don't really want to delay this PR on it since it's blocking other work though and was just planned to be mostly structural changes, so I'll change them back to CRDs for now, and later I'll make sure the concept of CRDs vs CRs is explained and open an issue to track the work on this separately.

> Configuration:: The `configuration.serving.knative.dev` resource maintains the desired state for your deployment. It provides a clean separation between code and configuration. Modifying a configuration creates a new Revision.

Author: We're talking about the CRDs here so none of this I think is modified by developers, just the Service custom resource. I've made some changes to make that clearer.

> Configuration:: The `configuration.serving.knative.dev` resource maintains the desired state for your deployment. It provides a clean separation between code and configuration. Modifying a configuration creates a new Revision.

Reviewer 2: All of them are _K8s_ _CRs_ (Custom Resources), but only _Service_ is changeable by users. Without saying that explicitly, we end up with people trying to edit _Revisions_, _Route_, etc directly, and fail as they should not suppose to do so.

I was fallen victim to this in the beginning with Knative. A strong Warning about it should be placed somewhere.

include::modules/serverless-document-attributes.adoc[]
[id="serverless-serving-architecture"]
= Knative Serving architecture
:context: serverless-serving-architecture
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]

toc::[]

Knative Serving supports deploying and managing serverless applications, by providing a set of objects as Kubernetes CustomResourceDefinitions (CRDs) that define and control the behavior of serverless workloads on an {product-title} cluster.

Developers use these CRDs to create custom resource instances that can be used as building blocks to address complex use cases. For example:

* Rapidly deploying serverless containers.
* Automatically scaling pods.
// TODO: Add other use cases, more advanced tutorials?

[id="serverless-serving-architecture-custom-resources"]
== Knative Serving CRDs
// TODO: Request a good Serving arch diagram

Service:: The `service.serving.knative.dev` CRD automatically manages the life cycle of your workload to ensure that the application is deployed and reachable through the network. It creates a Route, a Configuration, and a new Revision for each change to a user created Service, or custom resource.
+

> Most developer interactions in Knative are carried out by modifying Services, which simplifies Kubernetes operations, as this resource can be viewed as a replacement for a Route-Service-Deployment mechanism with a built-in autoscaler.

Reviewer 2: [Route-Service-Deployment [1]](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/3.6/dev_guide/deployments/advanced_deployment_strategies.html) isn't a mechanism. We can't say that. It's a Kubernetes or rather Openshift pattern, a good practice. Something that nearly everybody use. In Kubernetes it's [Ingress-Service-Deployment [2]](https://medium.com/@dwdraju/how-deployment-service-ingress-are-related-in-their-manifest-a2e553cf0ffb).

[1] https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/3.6/dev_guide/deployments/advanced_deployment_strategies.html
[2] https://medium.com/@dwdraju/how-deployment-service-ingress-are-related-in-their-manifest-a2e553cf0ffb

Reviewer 3: I would not give it a name like that at all, that doesn't really help anybody imo. At least i'm not aware of expressions like `Route-Service-Deployment` being commonly used.

Instead, let's just say that a service unifies the creation, management and scaling of a deployment, and makes sure that the pods of said deployment are reachable via HTTP.

Author: Cool, changing it to pattern.

Author: Sorry Markus just saw this comment for some reason. I'll remove this.

@cardil this is probably a good lesson to be honest. Once something is in QE review for docs, we should be reviewing for the accuracy of the info in the doc **only**, unless it's vital that we add more info for some reason. This is not the time to request a bunch of additional content or changes that aren't really necessary or could be followed up by another, more relevant, PR.

Reviewer 2: Maybe I should prepare you the suggestions I've done. My original intent here was just that - "accuracy of the info in the doc". Original PR listed those CRs without saying that users should change only Service, and others are read only.

Author: Following this up in Slack

include::modules/serverless-document-attributes.adoc[]
[id="serverless-serving-architecture"]

> = Knative Serving architecture

Author: Needs review for capitalization of terms.

Knative Serving supports deploying and managing cloud-native applications by providing a set of objects as Kubernetes Custom Resource Definitions (CRDs) that define and control the behavior of serverless workloads on an {product-title} cluster. For more information about CRDs, see xref:../../operators/crds/crd-extending-api-with-crds.adoc#crd-extending-api-with-crds[Extending the Kubernetes API with Custom Resource Definitions].

Developers use these CRDs to create custom resource (CR) instances that can be used as building blocks to address complex use cases. For example:

* Rapidly deploying serverless containers.
* Automatically scaling pods.
// TODO: Add other use cases, more advanced tutorials?

For more information about CRs, see xref:../../operators/crds/crd-managing-resources-from-crds.adoc#crd-managing-resources-from-crds[Managing resources from Custom Resource Definitions].

[id="serverless-serving-architecture-custom-resources"]
== Knative Serving CRDs
// TODO: Request a good Serving arch diagram

> Service:: The `service.serving.knative.dev` CRD automatically manages the life cycle of your workload to ensure that the application is deployed and reachable through the network. It creates a Route, a Configuration, and a new Revision for each change to a user created Service, or custom resource. Most developer interactions in Knative are carried out by modifying Services.

Reviewer 2: I still feel we need a stronger, more visible **NOTE** to say that all Knative Serving CRs apart from Service are read only. And, shouldn't be tried to change by users.

I'll open the issue for that to discuss on it to not block this PR.

Author: Thanks Chris, I saw you logged an issue for this in Jira.
